# Malaria-Detection-2

Malaria remains a major burden on global health, with roughly 200 million cases worldwide and more than 400,000 deaths per year. Besides biomedical research and political efforts, modern information technology is playing a key role in many attempts at fighting the disease. One of the barriers toward a successful mortality reduction has been inadequate malaria diagnosis in particular. To improve diagnosis, image analysis software and machine learning methods have been used to quantify parasitaemia in microscopic blood slides. From our project, we try to give an overview of these techniques and discusses the current developments in image analysis and machine learning for microscopic malaria diagnosis. We organize the different approaches published in the literature according to the techniques used for imaging, image pre-processing, parasite detection and cell segmentation, feature computation, and automatic cell classification.

Malaria is caused by protozoan parasites of the genus Plasmodium that are transmitted through the bites of infected female Anopheles mosquitoes and that infect the red blood cells. Most deaths occur among children in Africa, where a child dies almost every minute from malaria, and where malaria is a leading cause of childhood neuro-disability. According to the World Malaria Report 2016, an estimated 3.2 billion people in 95 countries and territories are at risk of being infected with malaria and developing disease, and 1.2 billion are at high risk (>1 in 1000 chance of getting malaria in a year). There were about 214 million cases of malaria globally in 2016 and about 438,000 malaria deaths. The burden was heaviest in the African region, where an estimated 92%2 of all malaria deaths occurred, and in children aged under 5 years, who accounted for more than two thirds of all deaths. Typical symptoms of malaria include fever, fatigue, headaches, and, in severe cases, seizures and coma, leading to death.

DATASET - https://www.kaggle.com/iarunava/cell-images-for-detecting-malaria
